rework of the tls section (#63)
ietf-wg-wimse/draft-ietf-wimse-s2s-protocol: draft-ietf-wimse-s2s-protocol.md

# Using Mutual TLS for Service To Service Authentication {#mutual-tls}

> The WIMSE workload identity may be carried within an X.509 certificate. The WIMSE workload identity MUST be encoded in a SubjectAltName extension of type URI.  There MUST be only one SubjectAltName extension of type URI in a WIMSE certificate.  If the workload will act as a TLS server for clients that do not understand WIMSE workload identities it is RECOMMENDED that WIMSE certificate contain a SubjectAltName of DNSName with the appropriate DNS names for the server. The certificate may contain SubjectAltName extensions of other types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The WIMSE workload identity may be carried within an X.509 certificate. The WIMSE workload identity MUST be encoded in a SubjectAltName extension of type URI.  There MUST be only one SubjectAltName extension of type URI in a WIMSE certificate.  If the workload will act as a TLS server for clients that do not understand WIMSE workload identities it is RECOMMENDED that WIMSE certificate contain a SubjectAltName of type DNSName with the appropriate DNS names for the server. The certificate may contain SubjectAltName extensions of other types.
```

WIMSE certificates may be used to authenticate both the server and client side of the connections.  When validating a WIMSE certificate, the relying party MUST use the trust anchors configured for the trust domain in the WIMSE identity to validate the peer's certificate.  Other PKIX {{!RFC5280}} path validation rules apply. WIMSE clients and servers MUST validate that the trust domain portion of the WIMSE certificate matches the expected trust domain for the other side of the connection.

Servers wishing to use the WIMSE certificate for authorizing the client MUST require client certificate authentication in the TLS handshake. Other methods of post handshake authentication are not specified by this document.

> WIMSE server certificates MUST have the id-kp-serverAuth extended key usage {{!RFC5280}} field set and WIMSE client certificates MUST have the id-kp-clientAuth extended key usage field set. A certificate that is used for both client and server connections may has both fields set. This specification does not make any other requirements beyond {{!RFC5280}} on the contents of WIMSE certificates or on the certificates that issue WIMSE certificates.

Reviewer: Asking out of ignorance: in the past, EKU was hit-and-miss. Is it now implemented so widely that we can have it as a MUST?

Author: I think its probably still a little hit and miss.  I think we can try to raise the bar here, but maybe its not really all that important enough to make it a barrier. I'd be happy with a SHOULD.

Author: Resolved by Yaron's suggestion.

> WIMSE server certificates MUST have the id-kp-serverAuth extended key usage {{!RFC5280}} field set and WIMSE client certificates MUST have the id-kp-clientAuth extended key usage field set. A certificate that is used for both client and server connections may has both fields set. This specification does not make any other requirements beyond {{!RFC5280}} on the contents of WIMSE certificates or on the certificates that issue WIMSE certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WIMSE server certificates SHOULD have the id-kp-serverAuth extended key usage {{!RFC5280}} field set and WIMSE client certificates SHOULD have the id-kp-clientAuth extended key usage field set. A certificate that is used for both client and server connections may have both fields set. This specification does not make any other requirements beyond {{!RFC5280}} on the contents of WIMSE certificates or on the certification authorities that issue WIMSE certificates.
```

## Server Name Validation {#server-name}

> If the WIMSE client uses a hostname to connect to the server and the server certificate contain a DNS SAN the client MUST perform standard host name validation ({{Section 6.3 of RFC9525}}) unless it is configured with the information necessary to validate the peer's WIMSE identity. If the client did not perform standard host name validation then WIMSE client SHOULD further use the WIMSE workload identifier to validate the server.  The host portion of the WIMSE URI is NOT treated as a host name as specified in section 6.4 of {{!RFC9525}} but rather as a trust domain. The server identity is encoded in the path portion of the WIMSE workload identifier in a deployment specific way. Validating the WIMSE workload identity could be a simple match on the trust domain and path portions of the identifier or validation may be based on the specific details on how the identifier is constructed. The path portion of the WIMSE identifier MUST always be considered in the scope of the trust domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the WIMSE client uses a hostname to connect to the server and the server certificate contain a DNS SAN the client MUST perform standard host name validation ({{Section 6.3 of RFC9525}}) unless it is configured with the information necessary to validate the peer's WIMSE identity. If the client did not perform standard host name validation then the WIMSE client SHOULD further use the WIMSE workload identifier to validate the server.  The host portion of the WIMSE URI is NOT treated as a host name as specified in section 6.4 of {{!RFC9525}} but rather as a trust domain. The server identity is encoded in the path portion of the WIMSE workload identifier in a deployment specific way. Validating the WIMSE workload identity could be a simple match on the trust domain and path portions of the identifier or validation may be based on the specific details on how the identifier is constructed. The path portion of the WIMSE identifier MUST always be considered in the scope of the trust domain.
```
